inputs/nominals/readme.md, before:


### lexnorm-all2.txt

Begin with a copy of [lexnorm-all2.txt](https://github.com/funderburkjim/MWlexnorm/blob/master/step2/lexnorm-all2.txt).

This is a csv format file (separator the tab character).
Fields:
* L = cologne record id for a record in Cologne digitization of Monier-Williams Sanskrit-English dictionary
* key1 = headword in citation form
* key2 = headword with compound-marking using '-'.
* lexnorm = inflection information in one of two forms:
  * 1: LEXID=X,STEM=Y[...]    for pronouns, cardinal numbers, etc.
  * 2: m:f#X:n   gender information, along with stem hints  


### removals from lexnorm-all2

Declensions for these records require special logic; also, the
identification of stem,models is simplified by this separation.
Thus, the two subgroups listed next are not presently in lexnorm-all2.txt.

#### lexnorm-all2-part.txt
A list of headwords which should be declined as participles.
These have been removed from lexnorm-all2.txt.
This includes words already marked as LEXID=prap and LEXID=fap.
   How to generate the declensions and to identify the model?

#### lexnorm-all2-inflectid.txt
   records marked with INFLECTID=...
   In these cases, the citation form in MW is a nominative dual or plural.
   How to generate the declensions and to identify the model?
   

### edit_lexnorm-all2.txt

These are the changes (shown as old/new pairs) made to the original
lexnorm-all2.txt.


## stem-model files
```
python3 stem_model.py lexnorm-all2.txt temp_stem_model_0.txt
# two types of duplicates are removed.
# First, those where the model and (un-hyphenated) stems are the same
python3 remove_dups.py temp_stem_model_0.txt temp_stem_model_1.txt  stem_model_dup.txt >  stem_model_dup_log.txt
# Second, feminines where the (un-hyphenated) stems are the same
# Note the log file which identifies these cases
python3 remove_gdups.py temp_stem_model_1.txt stem_model.txt  stem_model_gdup.txt > stem_model_gdup_log.txt

```
stem_model.py also writes two 'log' files:
* stem_model_log.txt  lists models, with counts. currently 183 models.
* stem_model_todo.txt Lists cases where no model currently assigned (1062)


## nominals currently without declension models
These are in these files
* stem_model_todo.txt in lexnorm-all2, but stem_model.py can't handle
* lexnorm-all2-part.txt  present and other participles
* lexnorm-irregular.txt  3 cases
* lexnorm-all2-inflectid.txt 61 cases
* lexnorm-all2-pron.txt  . 90 cases. This file may be irrelevant;
   Not sure how it relates to the 100 cases of 'LEXID=pron' in lexnorm-all2.txt

note: eka appears as both a cardinal and an 'mfn' in lexnorm-all2.txt
   The lgtab1b data has both declensions.
   This needs examination.

 
## analysis directory
This contains some programs and result files for analyzing subcases.
Not of current interest.

## notes directory
This contains miscellaneous notes prepared to aid in the stem-model
classification.

## data_aYc.py and data_vas.py
These two python code files are used indirectly by stem_model.py,
namely by the imported 'decline' module.

Commit message:

redo.sh for inputs/nominals

inputs/nominals/readme.md, after:

# Derivation of stem_model.txt

stem_model.txt is the main input to the nominal inflections.
The notes below describes how it is derived from another file lexnorm-all2.txt
based on Monier-Williams dictionary.

When lexnorm-all2.txt is changed, then stem_model.txt should be 
recomputed, using the 'redo.sh' script.   

stem_model.txt is then used as the main input to the decline_file.py program
in MWinflect/inflect directory.

### lexnorm-all2.txt

Begin with a copy of [lexnorm-all2.txt](https://github.com/funderburkjim/MWlexnorm/blob/master/step2/lexnorm-all2.txt).

This is a csv format file (separator the tab character).
Fields:
* L = cologne record id for a record in Cologne digitization of Monier-Williams Sanskrit-English dictionary
* key1 = headword in citation form
* key2 = headword with compound-marking using '-'.
* lexnorm = inflection information in one of two forms:
  * 1: LEXID=X,STEM=Y[...]    for pronouns, cardinal numbers, etc.
  * 2: m:f#X:n   gender information, along with stem hints  


### removals from lexnorm-all2

Declensions for these records require special logic; also, the
identification of stem,models is simplified by this separation.
Thus, the two subgroups listed next are not presently in lexnorm-all2.txt.

#### lexnorm-all2-part.txt
A list of headwords which should be declined as participles.
These have been removed from lexnorm-all2.txt.
This includes words already marked as LEXID=prap and LEXID=fap.
   How to generate the declensions and to identify the model?

#### lexnorm-all2-inflectid.txt
   records marked with INFLECTID=...
   In these cases, the citation form in MW is a nominative dual or plural.
   How to generate the declensions and to identify the model?
   

### edit_lexnorm-all2.txt

These are the changes (shown as old/new pairs) made to the original
lexnorm-all2.txt.


## stem-model files
```
python3 stem_model.py lexnorm-all2.txt temp_stem_model_0.txt
# two types of duplicates are removed.
# First, those where the model and (un-hyphenated) stems are the same
python3 remove_dups.py temp_stem_model_0.txt temp_stem_model_1.txt  stem_model_dup.txt >  stem_model_dup_log.txt
# Second, feminines where the (un-hyphenated) stems are the same
# Note the log file which identifies these cases
python3 remove_gdups.py temp_stem_model_1.txt stem_model.txt  stem_model_gdup.txt > stem_model_gdup_log.txt

```
stem_model.py also writes two 'log' files:
* stem_model_log.txt  lists models, with counts. currently 183 models.
* stem_model_todo.txt Lists cases where no model currently assigned (1062)


## nominals currently without declension models
These are in these files
* stem_model_todo.txt in lexnorm-all2, but stem_model.py can't handle
* lexnorm-all2-part.txt  present and other participles
* lexnorm-irregular.txt  3 cases
* lexnorm-all2-inflectid.txt 61 cases
* lexnorm-all2-pron.txt  . 90 cases. This file may be irrelevant;
   Not sure how it relates to the 100 cases of 'LEXID=pron' in lexnorm-all2.txt

note: eka appears as both a cardinal and an 'mfn' in lexnorm-all2.txt
   The lgtab1b data has both declensions.
   This needs examination.

 
## analysis directory
This contains some programs and result files for analyzing subcases.
Not of current interest.

## notes directory
This contains miscellaneous notes prepared to aid in the stem-model
classification.

## data_aYc.py and data_vas.py
These two python code files are used indirectly by stem_model.py,
namely by the imported 'decline' module.
